create a new folder, name it fir_single_mac
create a project inside that folder, name it fir_single_mac (or anything you want)
choose the fpga to be cyclone 5 and device to be 5CSEBA6U23I7 
inside the fir_single_mac folder, create src, data, ip, scripts folder.
inside src create an rtl and tb folder
make sure to run every script from the project root folder, not from anywhere else
We are going to use Q(2, 14) (17 bits in total) format for everything

inside src paste your fir filter implementation
make sure that for hValues you wrote a python script which generates a module in src/rtl folder
(I couldn't figure out how to use .mem files or any other way). store the script in scripts folder
write a script to generate the signal data. The output of the final should be a .mif file.
The output should be in the data folder. Make sure to keep sampling frequency to be 100kHz
otherwise output is not proper. A specific format is to be followed, which is given below->

    WIDTH=17; (size of the each data)
    DEPTH=1000; (number of values)
    ADDRESS_RADIX=UNS;
    DATA_RADIX=HEX;
    CONTENT BEGIN
        0: data0
        1: data1
        ...
    END;

Make sure it generates three files for each frequency 900Hz, 1100Hz, 2000Hz
Run the script, make sure the signal_xxx.mif files get generated in the data folder

Create an IP of ROM 1-Port, make sure to store in the ip folder
q bus (output) should be 17bits, and keep the depth to be 10000 (to store 10K samples)
memory block and max block depth leave it as auto, and let it be single clock, click next
keep the second one as it is and go to third one.
In mem_init (third one) keep the name as datagen_rom, instance ID to be WAVE (can be random idk)
click allow insystem memory content editor, for the file select one of the signal_xxx.mif files
click finish. Check if the ip is in the project folder or not. add the ip to project files in quartus

run the coeff_gen.py file and check if it generate the coeff_rom.v in the src/rtl folder or not
Create a datagen module as a wrapper around the datagen_rom. The input of the this is clk, reset
and next_sample enable. When the last signal is high and clk posedge comes it should send a new sample

Now create a new wrapper around the filter implementation and datagen module. at each clock cycle,
the filter sends a signal if it busy or not, if its not datagen will send a sample. filter processes
this sample and sends the next. Keep a bunch of wires to get the output of filter
The input of this wrapper is clk and an a KEY of wire [1:0] (used for reset and maps to i/o of fpga)
make sure to use word (* keep *) for sample signal and output signal so that compiler wont optimise it
keep the (* keep *) for sample ready signal as well

Add all of these of these verilog files to project and set the complete wrapper (de10_nano_top) as top entity
Compile once to check if everything is fine or not. Max frequency of fpga is 50Mhz.
So write an sdc file so that clock period is 20ns and keep it project root folder (name is SDC1)
Make sure the clock name matches with top module clock name. add the sdc file to project.

after compiling open pin planner. In the location section keep ->
Set key[0] (system wide reset) to PIN_AH17
Set FPGA_CLK (the clock) to PIN_V11
Make sure the I/O standard for these pins is set to 3.3 LVTTL (for whatever reason, it worked not questioning it)
Compile again to check again is everything works or not.

Connect DE10 Nano to the Laptop via USB Blaster port
In quartus go to programmer in tools
click autodetect, select the device name 5CSEBA6, click yes, two devices will be shown.
right click the device 5CSEBA6 and select change file and select the .sof file from the output files folder
click program/config box and press start, after the progress is 100% the conf_d led on board should light up
close the window and save the changes. Run analysis and elaboration once.


Create a new file of signal tap analyzer. A new window will open. alternatively go to signal tap analyzer in the tools
Click the browse button (... button) near the Clock text on the right side of the window.
Enlarge the newly open windowed (makes it easier to work with). click the button which points below near list button
Set the filter to Signal Tap: pre-systhesis. keep it Named bar with * and press enter or click list
double click your clock name in the top module, it should come on right side. click ok or press enter
Right click anywhere on the black space in middle and select add nodes.
Add your output signal on the right side, make sure that first thing you add is MSB, last is LSB in order
click insert, and repeat same for input signal from datagen and ready signal.

select all the wire related to input signal (can use shift) and right click and group them. do same for output signal
Rename the group to whatever is needed (input_signal, output_signal). 
Select sample depth (right side) to 8K, select the ready signal trigger condition to rising edge (better graph)

On the top right corner, make sure the device is correct and hardware is DeSoc [3-2].
Near the data section on the right, change storage qualifier type to input port, and select input port to ready signal.
save the file and compile once again. after compilation go back to signal tap analyzer through tools.
Near the sof manager click the browse button and upload the new .sof file
Click the program device button just the button after the button on the left side of bar.
It should show read to acquire on the top
Select autosignal tap and click run analysis. A waveform will be generated.
right click input signal, at last change the bus format to signed two's complement decimal.
Do the same for output, go to files section adn export as comma separated .csv file. save it in data folder
write a script to plot the values and then you are done.

To change the data to different signals

